# google-genetic-queries

Evolving Google Queries

Perl, Genetic Programming, Google API

History
This project has evolved over the years. It started as an experiment with Perl's object oriented capabilities and Google's earlier search API. The first finished product was some sort of genetic algorithm implementation in which the genotypes were character strings and the selection pressure was generated by the number of hits the use of the string as a Google search query returned. I played with the finished software for about 10 minutes, stored it on this repo and forgot about it.

In mid-2009, I became aware of a growing body of knowledge that seemed to suggest that it was possible to train the mind much like muscles or balance could be trained. The research seemed to indicate that it was in fact possible to increase human intelligence through regular practice of specifically designed brain exercise. The essence of the research that I was made aware of seemed to indicate that the key to such training was constant increase in difficulty, and constant change in problem types and statements. At that point, I looked around for existing software to do just that, and mostly came up blank, except for the system offered by lumosity.com, which appeared to me to be the only one that would translate into skills applicable to real world situations. However I grew dissatisfied by all existing training systems as I didn't feel they increased in difficulty at the same rate at which my abilities to solve the problems increased. Moreover, I didn't feel that I was focusing enough on my weaker cognitive area as I could keep playing the games at which I was good at, ignoring the ones in which I was weaker (in particular memory games). My natural human instinct seemed to prefer the activities that made me feel successful, yet it occurred to me that the activities at which I was weaker would be the ones that would be the most beneficial to my cognitive capacities.

Competence
Around that time, I also became aware of a study that showed that people who are objectively rated as incompetent in a specific task tend to see themselves as above average in terms of competence for that task. The study suggested that incompetence was not only crippling in terms of performance, but that it had the self-survival effect of making it harder to recognize competence, including in oneself.

It then occured to me that a well designed system would specifically focus player's cognitive weaknesses (which in my case was memory). The prey/predator model seemed the most appropriate metaphor for such a system. As the prey evolves body dynamics that make it more competent at being harder to catch, the predator has to evolve features that make it more competent at catching prey, leading to an arms race in which both predator and prey become increasingly competent at catching and at not being caught. What was needed was a system that would identify players' weaknesses, and create training routines designed around those weaknesses, thus leaving no choice to the players but to overcome those weaknesses in order to progress through their training. I had to consider that while I may be feeling that I was improving in some trivial exercises such as being marginally faster at basic arithmetics, I may not be improving in those area in which I was very weak, because I was unaware of my weaknesses in those areas and because I would unwittingly avoid the specific exercises at which I was truly incompetent.

I  decided to dust off the system stored on this rep and transform it into an intelligence training program. It is a command line program, and as such is probably not usable by the general populace that knows computing only through windows and graphic interfaces. I intend to eventually post more details as to its operations, but considering the laziness with which I traditionally approach these things, it may take a while. It should, however be a simple thing to operate by anyone with a good working knowledge of Perl.

Franck Binard, PhD

Training areas: Working memory Spatial memory Estimating
